INSTALL.md, before:

# Installing and Building pelz

## Dependencies

### For Ubuntu:
apt install make cmake indent gcc openssl libssl-dev libffi-dev libcunit1 libcunit1-dev libcunit1-doc

#### cJSON:
cJSON is required to build pelz.  

    git clone https://github.com/DaveGamble/cJSON.git
    cd cJSON
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    make install

For more information on building cJSON, please see their [build instructions](https://github.com/DaveGamble/cJSON#building).

#### uriparser
[uriparser](https://github.com/uriparser/uriparser) 0.9.0 or newer is required to build pelz. See their [build instructions](https://github.com/uriparser/uriparser#compilation). You may find it convenient to use the ```-DURIPARSER_BUILD_TESTS=OFF``` and ```-DURIPARSER_BUILD_DOCS=OFF``` flags.

#### kmyth logger:
The kmyth logger is used by pelz. It requires building the logger, but not all of kmyth.  

    git clone https://github.com/NationalSecurityAgency/kmyth.git
    cd kmyth/tpm2
    make logger-lib
    make install

For more information, please see their [build instructions](https://github.com/NationalSecurityAgency/kmyth/blob/main/tpm2/INSTALL.md).
## Building pelz
Once the dependencies are in place, building pelz is done by:

    make
    make install

#### Building pelz-sgx
Pelz can now be built to keep its key table inside an SGX enclave. This functionality is currently extremely experimental, and installation is not supported. To test the pelz-sgx functionality:
 * Install the [Intel Linux SGX SDK](https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx)
 * Install the [Intel SGX SSL library](https://github.com/intel/intel-sgx-ssl)
 * Generate or install the enclave signing key. For example, use ```openssl genrsa -out sgx/pelz_enclave_private.pem -3 3072```
 * Source the SGX SDK environment

With all the setup complete, pelz-sgx can be built by:

     make -f sgx.mk

and executed by running

	./bin/pelz-sgx

All pelz-sgx related files can be cleaned up with

    make -f sgx.mk clean

## Pelz as a service
The service_setup.sh script can be used to initialize pelz as a Linux service. It must be run with root privileges.

To install:

	sh service-setup.sh -i

To uninstall:

	sh service-setup.sh -u

## Pelz plugin for Accumulo
Pelz comes with a plugin for Apache Accumulo. This allows the key encryption key(s) to be stored outside of Accumulo. Accumulo must be built after the plugin is installed. The script can be found in the accumulo_plugin directory. The script is used as follows:

    ./accumulo_plugin/setup_plugin.sh -i/-u -d /path/to/source/for/accumulo

For example, to install to a home directory containing the Accumulo source, you would execute:

    ./accumulo_plugin/setup_plugin.sh -i -d ~/accumulo

To uninstall:

    ./accumulo_plugin/setup_plugin.sh -u -d ~/accumulo

The choice to install/uninstall must always be specified, and a path to accumulo must always be provided.

### Testing with uno
Uno provides an easy way to build a local instance of Accumulo for testing. Instructions for installing can be found [here](https://github.com/apache/fluo-uno). Once downloaded and configured, but prior to running "./bin/uno fetch accumulo" the following must occur:  

1. Download the [Accumulo source code](https://github.com/apache/accumulo).
2. The Accumulo plugin must be installed. See [above](Pelz plugin for Accumulo) for instructions.
3. From the fluo-uno directory:  
    a. cp conf/uno.conf conf/uno-local.conf  
    b. Open uno-local.conf in your favorite text editor  
    c. Uncomment and change the ACCUMULO_REPO configuration (line 46). This is the same location the plugin was installed.  
    d. Add "accumulo-encryption" to the POST_INSTALL_PLUGINS (line 151)  
    e. Save your changes and open plugins/accumulo-encryption.sh in a text editor  
    f. Change:  
        instance.crypto.service=org.apache.accumulo.core.cryptoImpl.AESCryptoService to  
        instance.crypto.service=org.apache.accumulo.core.cryptoImpl.PelzCryptoService  
    g. Save your changes  
4. Continue following uno instructions (fetch, setup, etc)

For testing, see the [Apache Accumulo Testing Suite](https://github.com/apache/accumulo-testing).

Commit message:

Improvement/kmyth enclave integration (#35)
* Removed unused file.

* Added kmyth submodule and integrated the current kmyth enclave ecalls into the pelz enclave.

* Still trying to figure out handling submodules.

* More figuring out submodules.

* Updated to reflect new kmyth organization.

* Update kmyth submodule to point to current main.

* Updated Makefile to match changes to kmyth enclave and fixed some whitespace issues.

* Fix url in gitmodules.

* Updated INSTALL.md

Updated INSTALL.md to reflect the need to include kmyth as a submodule. Also removed the instructions that referenced non-SGX versions of pelz.

* Removed unnecessary whitespace changes.

INSTALL.md, after:

# Installing and Building pelz

## Dependencies

### For Ubuntu:
    apt install make cmake indent gcc openssl libssl-dev libffi-dev libcunit1 libcunit1-dev libcunit1-doc

#### cJSON:
cJSON is required to build pelz.  

    git clone https://github.com/DaveGamble/cJSON.git
    cd cJSON
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    make install

For more information on building cJSON, please see their [build instructions](https://github.com/DaveGamble/cJSON#building).

#### uriparser
[uriparser](https://github.com/uriparser/uriparser) 0.9.0 or newer is required to build pelz. See their [build instructions](https://github.com/uriparser/uriparser#compilation). You may find it convenient to use the ```-DURIPARSER_BUILD_TESTS=OFF``` and ```-DURIPARSER_BUILD_DOCS=OFF``` flags.

#### Intel SGX SDK and SGX SSL
Pelz maintains its key table inside an SGX enclave. To support this functionality it requires the Intel Linux SGX SDK and Intel SGX SSL library. Instructions for installing these can be found here:
 * Install the [Intel Linux SGX SDK](https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx)
 * Install the [Intel SGX SSL library](https://github.com/intel/intel-sgx-ssl)

You must also create an enclave signing key, for example by running ```openssl genrsa -out sgx/pelz_enclave_private.pem -3 3072``` before building pelz.

The SGX SDK environment must be sourced before pelz can be run.

#### kmyth logger:
The kmyth logger is used by pelz. It requires building the logger, but not all of kmyth.  

    git clone https://github.com/NationalSecurityAgency/kmyth.git
    cd kmyth/tpm2
    make logger-lib
    make install

For more information, please see their [build instructions](https://github.com/NationalSecurityAgency/kmyth/blob/main/tpm2/INSTALL.md).

#### kmyth submodule
Pelz uses portions of the kmyth SGX enclave which it acquires by including kmyth as a git submodule and including the right files as part of its build process as described in the [kmyth SGX documentation](https://github.com/NationalSecurityAgency/kmyth/tree/main/sgx). Before attempting to build pelz you must initialize and update the kmyth submodule by:

    git submodule init
    git submodule update
    
## Building pelz
Once the dependencies are in place, building pelz is done by:

    make
    
 which places the executible in the ```bin/``` directory.
    
The unit test suite can be run via:

    make test
    
All build artifacts and binaries can be removed by running:

    make clean


## Pelz plugin for Accumulo
Pelz comes with a plugin for Apache Accumulo. This allows the key encryption key(s) to be stored outside of Accumulo. Accumulo must be built after the plugin is installed. The script can be found in the accumulo_plugin directory. The script is used as follows:

    ./accumulo_plugin/setup_plugin.sh -i/-u -d /path/to/source/for/accumulo

For example, to install to a home directory containing the Accumulo source, you would execute:

    ./accumulo_plugin/setup_plugin.sh -i -d ~/accumulo

To uninstall:

    ./accumulo_plugin/setup_plugin.sh -u -d ~/accumulo

The choice to install/uninstall must always be specified, and a path to accumulo must always be provided.

### Testing with uno
Uno provides an easy way to build a local instance of Accumulo for testing. Instructions for installing can be found [here](https://github.com/apache/fluo-uno). Once downloaded and configured, but prior to running "./bin/uno fetch accumulo" the following must occur:  

1. Download the [Accumulo source code](https://github.com/apache/accumulo).
2. The Accumulo plugin must be installed. See [above](Pelz plugin for Accumulo) for instructions.
3. From the fluo-uno directory:  
    a. cp conf/uno.conf conf/uno-local.conf  
    b. Open uno-local.conf in your favorite text editor  
    c. Uncomment and change the ACCUMULO_REPO configuration (line 46). This is the same location the plugin was installed.  
    d. Add "accumulo-encryption" to the POST_INSTALL_PLUGINS (line 151)  
    e. Save your changes and open plugins/accumulo-encryption.sh in a text editor  
    f. Change:  
        instance.crypto.service=org.apache.accumulo.core.cryptoImpl.AESCryptoService to  
        instance.crypto.service=org.apache.accumulo.core.cryptoImpl.PelzCryptoService  
    g. Save your changes  
4. Continue following uno instructions (fetch, setup, etc)

For testing, see the [Apache Accumulo Testing Suite](https://github.com/apache/accumulo-testing).
